:orphan:

.. _opt-always-use-async-handler:

``--always-use-async-handler``

.. _desc-always-use-async-handler:

Use async exception handler when creating new ``sycl::queue`` with
``dpct::create_queue`` in addition to default ``dpct::get_default_queue``.
Default: ``off``.

.. _end-always-use-async-handler:



.. _opt-analysis-scope-path:

``--analysis-scope-path=<dir>``

.. _desc-analysis-scope-path:

The directory path for the analysis scope of the source tree that needs
to be migrated. Default: the value of ``--in-root``.

.. _end-analysis-scope-path:





.. _opt-assume-nd-range-dim:

``--assume-nd-range-dim=<value>``

.. _desc-assume-nd-range-dim:

Provide a hint to the tool on the dimensionality of nd_range to use in
generated code. The values are:

- ``=1``: Generate kernel code assuming 1D ``nd_range`` where possible, and 3D
  in other cases.
- ``=3``: Generate kernel code assuming 3D ``nd_range`` (default).

.. _end-assume-nd-range-dim:



.. _opt-build-script-file:

``--build-script-file=<file>``

.. _desc-build-script-file:

Specify the name of generated makefile for migrated file(s). Default name:
``Makefile.dpct``.

.. _end-build-script-file:



.. _opt-change-cuda-files-extension-only:

``--change-cuda-files-extension-only``

.. _desc-change-cuda-files-extension-only:

Limit extension change to ``.cu`` and ``.cuh`` files only. Default: ``off``.

.. _end-change-cuda-files-extension-only:



.. _opt-check-unicode-security:

``--check-unicode-security``

.. _desc-check-unicode-security:

Enable detection and warnings about Unicode constructs that can be exploited by
using bi-directional formatting codes and homoglyphs in identifiers. Default: ``off``.

.. _end-check-unicode-security:



.. _opt-comments:

``--comments``

.. _desc-comments:

Insert comments explaining the generated code. Default: ``off``.

.. _end-comments:



.. _opt-cuda-include-path:

``--cuda-include-path=<dir>``

.. _desc-cuda-include-path:

The directory path of the CUDA\* header files.

.. _end-cuda-include-path:



.. _opt-enable-ctad:

``--enable-ctad``

.. _desc-enable-ctad:

Use a C++17 class template argument deduction (CTAD) in your generated code.

.. _end-enable-ctad:



.. _opt-enable-profiling:

``--enable-profiling``

.. _desc-enable-profiling:

Enable SYCL\* queue profiling in helper functions. Default: ``auto`` (when set to ``auto``, the ``enable-profiling`` option will only be used if the tool deduces that profiling is required during migration).

.. _end-enable-profiling:



.. _opt-extra-arg:

``--extra-arg=<string>``

.. _desc-extra-arg:

Specify additional arguments to append to the migration command line. The option
accepts a comma-separated list of extra arguments and may be used multiple times
in a command. For example:

.. code-block::

   dpct xx.cu --extra-arg="-I /path, -I /path2" --extra-arg="-I /path/to/header"

Use the ``dpct -- -help`` command to find options that can be passed as extra
arguments for the migration command.

.. _end-extra-arg:



.. _opt-format-range:

``--format-range=<value>``

.. _desc-format-range:

Set the range of formatting.

The values are:

- ``=all``: Format all code.
- ``=migrated``: Only format the migrated code (default).
- ``=none``: Do not format any code.

.. _end-format-range:



.. _opt-format-style:

``--format-style=<value>``

.. _desc-format-style:

Set the formatting style.

The values are:

- ``=custom``: Use the coding style defined in the ``.clang-format`` file (default).
- ``=google``: Use the Google\* coding style.
- ``=llvm``: Use the LLVM coding style.


Example for the .clang-format file content:

::

  BasedOnStyle:
  LLVM IndentWidth: 4
  TabWidth: 4
  UseTab: ForIndentation

.. _end-format-style:



.. _opt-gen-build-script:

``--gen-build-script``

.. _desc-gen-build-script:

Generate makefile for migrated file(s) in ``-out-root`` directory.
Default: ``off``.

.. _end-gen-build-script:



.. _opt-help:

``--help``

.. _desc-help:

Display available options.

.. _end-help:

.. _opt-help-value:

``--help=<value>``

.. _desc-help-value:

Display available options.

- ``=basic``: List options for basic migration.
- ``=advanced``: List options for advanced migration.
- ``=code-gen``: List options to customize how code is migrated.
- ``=report-gen``: List option(s) to control report generation during migration.
- ``=build-script``: List options to migrate build script(s).
- ``=query-api``: List options to query API mapping support.
- ``=warnings``: List options to manage warnings generated by the tool.
- ``=help-info``: List options to display tool information.
- ``=intercept-build``: List options of intercept-build tool.
- ``=examples``: List examples of common DPCT options usage.

.. _end-help-value:

.. _opt-helper-func-dir:

``--helper-function-dir``

.. _desc-helper-func-dir:

Print the installation directory for helper function header files.

.. _end-helper-func-dir:



.. _opt-helper-func-pref:

``--helper-function-preference=<value>``

.. _desc-helper-func-pref:

The preference of helper function usage in migration. Value:

- ``=no-queue-device``: Call SYCL API to get queue and device instead of calling helper function.

.. _end-helper-func-pref:



.. _opt-intercept-build:

``--intercept-build``

.. _desc-intercept-build:

Intercept build tool to generate a compilation database.

.. _end-intercept-build:



.. _opt-in-root:

``--in-root=<dir>``

.. _desc-in-root:

The directory path for the root of the source tree that needs to be migrated.
Only files under this root are migrated. Default:

- The current directory, if the input source files are not provided.
- The directory of the first input source file, if the input source files are provided.

Details:

- Any source within the directory specified by ``--in-root`` (at any nesting level)
  may be migrated.
- Any header file within the directory specified by ``--in-root`` (at any nesting
  level) that is included by the source or header file which is being migrated, is also
  migrated.
- Files from outside the ``--in-root`` directory will not be migrated even if
  they are included by any of the program source files.

.. _end-in-root:



.. _opt-in-root-exclude:

``--in-root-exclude=<dir|file>``

.. _desc-in-root-exclude:

Exclude the specified directory or file from processing.

.. _end-in-root-exclude:



.. _opt-keep-original-code:

``--keep-original-code``

.. _desc-keep-original-code:

Keep the original code in the comments of generated SYCL files. Default: ``off``.

.. _end-keep-original-code:



.. _opt-no-dpcpp-extensions:

``--no-dpcpp-extensions=<value>``

.. _desc-no-dpcpp-extensions:

A comma-separated list of extensions not to be used in migrated code.
By default, these extensions are used in migrated code.

The values are:

- ``=bfloat16``: Disable the SYCL extensions for bfloat16. `See more details <https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/supported/sycl_ext_oneapi_bfloat16.asciidoc>`__.
- ``=device_info``: Disable the Intel extensions for device information, if supported
  by the compiler and the backend. `See more details <https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/supported/sycl_ext_intel_device_info.md>`__.
- ``=enqueued_barriers``: Disable the enqueued barriers extension. `See more details <https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/supported/sycl_ext_oneapi_enqueue_barrier.asciidoc>`__.
- ``=peer_access``: Disable the peer access extension. `See more details <https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/supported/sycl_ext_oneapi_peer_access.asciidoc>`__.
- ``=assert``: Disable the assert extension. `See more details <https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/supported/sycl_ext_oneapi_assert.asciidoc>`__.
- ``=queue_empty``: Disable the queue empty extension. `See more details <https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/supported/sycl_ext_oneapi_queue_empty.asciidoc>`__.
- ``=all``: Disable all extensions listed in this option.

.. _end-no-dpcpp-extensions:



.. _opt-no-dry-pattern:

``--no-dry-pattern``

.. _desc-no-dry-pattern:

Do not use a Don't Repeat Yourself (DRY) pattern when functions from the
``dpct`` namespace are inserted. Default: ``off``.

.. _end-no-dry-pattern:



.. _opt-no-incremental-migration:

``--no-incremental-migration``

.. _desc-no-incremental-migration:

Tell the tool to not perform an incremental migration. Default: ``off``
(incremental migration happens).

.. _end-no-incremental-migration:



.. _opt-optimize-migration:

``--optimize-migration``

.. _desc-optimize-migration:

Generate SYCL code applying more aggressive assumptions that
potentially may alter the semantics of your program. Default: ``off``.

.. _end-optimize-migration:



.. _opt-out-root:

``--out-root=<dir>``

.. _desc-out-root:

The directory path for root of generated files. A directory is created if
it does not exist. Default: ``dpct_output``.

The relative paths for the generated files are maintained. By default, file
extensions are changed as follows:

- ``*.cu → *.dp.cpp``
- ``*.cpp → *.cpp.dp.cpp``
- ``*.cc → *.cc.dp.cpp``
- ``*.cxx → *.cxx.dp.cpp``
- ``*.C → *.C.dp.cpp``
- ``*.cuh → *.dp.hpp``
- ``*.h *.hpp *.hxx`` → extensions are kept the same

To limit file extension changes to ``.cu`` and ``.cuh`` files only, use the
``--change-cuda-files-extension-only`` option.

.. _end-out-root:



.. _opt-output-file:

``--output-file=<file>``

.. _desc-output-file:

Redirect the ``stdout``/``stderr`` output to ``<file>`` in the
output directory specified by the ``--out-root`` option.

.. _end-output-file:



.. _opt-output-verbosity:

``--output-verbosity=<value>``

.. _desc-output-verbosity:

Set the output verbosity level:

- ``=detailed``: 'normal' and messages about which file is being processed.
- ``=diagnostics``: 'detailed' and information about the detected conflicts
  and crashes (default).
- ``=normal``: 'silent' and warnings, errors, and notes from |tool_name|.
- ``=silent``: Only messages from clang.

.. _end-output-verbosity:




.. _opt-p:

``-p``

.. _desc-p:

Alias for ``--compilation-database``.

.. _end-p:




.. _opt-process-all:

``--process-all``

.. _desc-process-all:

Migrate or copy all files, except hidden, from the ``--in-root``
directory to the ``--out-root`` directory. The ``--in-root`` option should
be explicitly specified. Default: ``off``.

Details:

If ``--process-all`` and ``--in-root`` options are specified, but no
input files are provided, the tool migrates or copies all files, except
hidden, from the ``--in-root`` directory to the output directory.

- If there is a compilation database:

  - Files from the compilation database are migrated with the options
    specified in the compilation database
  - Files with the ``.cu`` extension that are not listed in the compilation
    database are migrated as standalone
  - Remaining files are copied to the ``–out-root`` directory

- If there is no compilation database:

  - Files with the ``.cu`` extension are migrated as standalone
  - Remaining files are copied to the ``-out-root`` directory

``--process-all`` is ignored if input files are provided on the command line.

.. _end-process-all:




.. _opt-query-api-map:

``-query-api-mapping=<api>``

.. _desc-query-api-map:

Query functionally-compatible SYCL API to migrate CUDA API.

.. _end-query-api-map:




.. _opt-report-file-prefix:

``--report-file-prefix=<prefix>``

.. _desc-report-file-prefix:

Specify the prefix for the migration report file names. The full file name will have a suffix
derived from the ``report-type``, and an extension derived from the
``report-format``. For example: ``<prefix>.apis.csv`` or ``<prefix>.stats.log``.
If this option is not specified, the report goes to ``stdout``. The report
files are created in the directory, specified by ``-out-root``.

.. _end-report-file-prefix:



.. _opt-report-format:

``--report-format=<value>``

.. _desc-report-format:

Specify the format of the reports:

- ``=csv``: Output will be lines of comma-separated values. The report file
  name extension will ``.csv`` (default).
- ``=formatted``: Output will be formatted for easier readability.
  Report file name extension will be ``log``.

.. _end-report-format:



.. _opt-report-only:

``--report-only``

.. _desc-report-only:

Generate migration reports only. No SYCL code will be generated. Default: ``off``.

.. _end-report-only:



.. _opt-report-type:

``--report-type=<value>``

.. _desc-report-type:

Specify the type of migration report. Values are:

- ``=all``: All of the migration reports.
- ``=apis``: Information about API signatures that need migration and the
  number of times they were encountered. The report file name has the
  ``.apis`` suffix added.
- ``=stats``: High level migration statistics: Lines Of Code (LOC) that
  are migrated to SYCL, LOC migrated to SYCL with helper functions,
  LOC not needing migration, LOC needing migration but are not migrated.
  The report file name has the ``.stats`` suffix added (default).

.. _end-report-type:



.. _opt-rule-file:

``--rule-file=<file>``

.. _desc-rule-file:

Specify the rule file path that contains rules used for migration.

.. _end-rule-file:



.. _opt-stop-on-parse-err:

``--stop-on-parse-err``

.. _desc-stop-on-parse-err:

Stop migration and generation of reports if parsing errors happened. Default: ``off``.

.. _end-stop-on-parse-err:



.. _opt-suppress-warnings:

``--suppress-warnings=<value>``

.. _desc-suppress-warnings:

A comma-separated list of migration warnings to suppress. Valid warning IDs
range from 1000 to 1127. Hyphen-separated ranges are also allowed. For
example: ``-suppress-warnings=1000-1010,1011``.

.. _end-suppress-warnings:



.. _opt-suppress-warnings-all:

``--suppress-warnings-all``

.. _desc-suppress-warnings-all:

Suppress all migration warnings. Default: ``off``.

.. _end-suppress-warnings-all:



.. _opt-sycl-named-lambda:

``--sycl-named-lambda``

.. _desc-sycl-named-lambda:

Generate kernels with the kernel name. Default: ``off``.

.. _end-sycl-named-lambda:



.. _opt-use-dpcpp-extensions:

``--use-dpcpp-extensions=<value>``

.. _desc-use-dpcpp-extensions:

A comma-separated list of extensions to be used in migrated code.
By default, these extensions are not used in migrated code.

- ``=c_cxx_standard_library``: Use std functions from the libdevice library
  (provided by |dpcpp_compiler|_) and C/C++ Standard Library to migrate functions
  which have no mapping in the SYCL standard. If this value is used together with
  ``intel_device_math``, the ``intel_device_math`` functions take precedence. `See more details <https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/supported/C-CXX-StandardLibrary.rst>`__.
- ``=intel_device_math``: Use ``sycl::ext::intel::math`` functions from the libdevice
  library (provided by |dpcpp_compiler|) to migrate functions which have no
  mapping in the SYCL standard. `See more details <https://github.com/intel/llvm/tree/sycl/libdevice>`__.
- ``all``: Enable all DPC++ extensions listed in this option.

.. _end-use-dpcpp-extensions:



.. _opt-use-experimental-features:

``--use-experimental-features=<value>``

.. _desc-use-experimental-features:

A comma-separated list of experimental features to be used in migrated code.
By default, experimental features will not be used in migrated code.

The values are:

- ``=bfloat16_math_functions``: Experimental extension that allows use of bfloat16 math functions. `See more details <https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/experimental/sycl_ext_oneapi_bfloat16_math_functions.asciidoc>`__.
- ``=bindless_images``: Experimental extension that allows use of bindless images APIs. `See more details <https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/experimental/sycl_ext_oneapi_bindless_images.asciidoc>`__.
- ``=dpl-experimental-api``: Experimental extension that allows use of experimental
  oneDPL APIs. `See more details <https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneDPL/tree/main/include/oneapi/dpl/pstl/experimental>`__.
- ``=free-function-queries``: Experimental extension that allows getting
  ``id``, ``item``, ``nd_item``, ``group``, and ``sub_group`` instances
  globally. `See more details <https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/supported/sycl_ext_oneapi_free_function_queries.asciidoc>`__.
- ``=local-memory-kernel-scope-allocation``: Experimental extension that
  allows allocation of local memory objects at the kernel functor scope. `See more details <https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/supported/sycl_ext_oneapi_local_memory.asciidoc>`__.
- ``=logical-group``: Experimental helper function used to logically
  group work-items. See more details in ``dpct::experimental::logical_group`` in header file ``util.hpp``.
- ``=masked-sub-group-operation``: Experimental helper function used to execute
  sub-group operation with mask. See more details in ``dpct::experimental::select_from_sub_group``, ``dpct::experimental::shift_sub_group_left``, ``dpct::experimental::shift_sub_group_right`` and ``dpct::experimental::shift_sub_group_right`` in header file ``util.hpp``.
- ``=matrix``: Experimental extension that allows use of matrix extension like class ``joint_matrix``. `See more details <https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/experimental/sycl_ext_matrix/sycl_ext_oneapi_matrix.asciidoc>`__.
- ``=nd_range_barrier``: Experimental helper function used to help cross-group synchronization during migration. See more details in ``dpct::experimental::nd_range_barrier`` in header file ``util.hpp``.
- ``=occupancy-calculation``: Experimental helper function used to calculate occupancy. See more details in ``dpct::experimental::calculate_max_active_wg_per_xecore`` and ``dpct::experimental::calculate_max_potential_wg`` in header file ``util.hpp``.
- ``=user-defined-reductions``: Experimental extension that allows user-defined
  reductions. `See more details <https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/experimental/sycl_ext_oneapi_user_defined_reductions.asciidoc>`__.
- ``=non-uniform-groups``: Experimental extension that allows use of non-uniform groups. `See more details <https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/experimental/sycl_ext_oneapi_non_uniform_groups.asciidoc>`__.
- ``=device_global``: Experimental extension that allows device scoped memory allocations into SYCL that can
  be accessed within a kernel using syntax similar to C++ global variables. `See more details <https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/experimental/sycl_ext_oneapi_device_global.asciidoc>`__.
- ``=all``: Enable all experimental extensions listed in this option.

.. _end-use-experimental-features:



.. _opt-use-explicit-namespace:

``--use-explicit-namespace=<value>``

.. _desc-use-explicit-namespace:

Define the namespaces to use explicitly in generated code. The value is
a comma-separated list. Default: ``dpct, sycl``.

Possible values are:

- ``=dpct``: Generate code with ``dpct::`` namespace.
- ``=none``: Generate code without any namespaces. Cannot be used with other values.
- ``=sycl``: Generate code with ``sycl::`` namespace. Cannot be used with ``cl``
  or ``sycl-math`` values.
- ``=sycl-math``: Generate code with ``sycl::`` namespace, applied only for SYCL
  math functions. Cannot be used with ``cl`` or ``sycl`` values.

.. _end-use-explicit-namespace:



.. _opt-usm-level:

``--usm-level=<value>``

.. _desc-usm-level:

Set the Unified Shared Memory (USM) level to use in source code generation:

- ``=none``: Uses helper functions from |tool_name| header files
  for memory management migration.
- ``=restricted``: Uses USM API for memory management migration. (default).

.. _end-usm-level:

.. _opt-vcxprojfile:

``--vcxprojfile=<file>``

.. _desc-vcxprojfile:

The directory path for the C++ project file ``vcxproj`` of the Visual Studio
project to migrate. Paths and build options described in the project file are
used to guide the migration.

.. _end-vcxprojfile:



.. _opt-version:

``--version``

.. _desc-version:

Show the version of the tool.

.. _end-version:



.. _opt-compilation-db:

``--compilation-database=<dir>``

.. _desc-compilation-db:

The directory path for the compilation database (compile_commands.json) for
the files to be migrated. Paths and build options described in the project
file are used to guide the migration.

When no path is specified, a search for compile_commands.json is attempted
through all parent directories of the first input source file.

Same as -p.

.. _end-compilation-db:


.. _opt-gen-helper-func:

``--gen-helper-function``

.. _desc-gen-helper-func:

Generate helper function files in the ``--out-root`` directory. Default: ``off``.

.. _end-gen-helper-func:


.. _opt-analysis-mode:

``--analysis-mode``

.. _desc-analysis-mode:

Only generate a report for porting effort. Default: ``off``.

.. _end-analysis-mode:


.. _opt-analysis-mode-output-file:

``--analysis-mode-output-file``

.. _desc-analysis-mode-output-file:

Specify the file where the analysis mode report is saved. Default: Output to ``stdout``.

.. _end-analysis-mode-output-file:


.. _opt-codepin-report:

``--codepin-report``

.. _desc-codepin-report:

Call ``codepin-report.py`` to generate CodePin report by parsing execution log files generated by instrumented CUDA and SYCL code.

.. _end-codepin-report:

.. _opt-enable-codepin:

``--enable-codepin``

.. _desc-enable-codepin:

EXPERIMENTAL: Generate instrumented CUDA and SYCL code for debug and verification purposes in the directory ``<dir>_codepin_cuda`` and ``<dir>_codepin_sycl``, where ``<dir>`` is specified by ``--out-root`` option.

.. _end-enable-codepin:


.. _opt-intercept-build:

``--intercept-build``

.. _desc-intercept-build:

Intercept build tool to generate a compilation database.

.. _end-intercept-build:


.. _opt-migrate-build-script:

``--migrate-build-script=<value>``

.. _desc-migrate-build-script:

EXPERIMENTAL: Migrate build script(s).

- ``=CMake``: Migrate the CMake file(s).

.. _end-migrate-build-script:


.. _opt-migrate-build-script-only:

``--migrate-build-script-only``

.. _desc-migrate-build-script-only:

EXPERIMENTAL: Only migrate the build script(s). Default: ``off``.

.. _end-migrate-build-script-only:


.. _opt-sycl-file-extension:

``--sycl-file-extension=<value>``

.. _desc-sycl-file-extension:

Specify the extension of migrated source file(s).
The values are:

- ``=dp-cpp``: Use extension '.dp.cpp' and '.dp.hpp' (default).
- ``=sycl-cpp``: Use extension '.sycl.cpp' and '.sycl.hpp'.
- ``=cpp``: Use extension '.cpp' and '.hpp'.

.. _end-sycl-file-extension:


.. _opt-intercept-build-block:

intercept-build Options
-----------------------

The `intercept-build` tool is available for Linux\* only. It is available as part of |tool_name| installation.

The following table lists `intercept-build` tool command line options.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
   * - `--append`
     - Extend existing compilation database with new entries. Duplicate entries are
       detected and not present in the final output. The output is not continuously
       updated; it's done when the build command finished. Default: disabled.
   * - `--cdb <file>`
     - The JSON compilation database. Default name: `compile_commands.json`.
   * - `--intercept-build`
     - Invoke the `intercept-build` tool to generate a compilation database.
   * - `--linker-entry`
     - Generate linker entry in compilation database if the `--linker-entry` option
       is present. Default: enabled.
   * - `--no-linker-entry`
     - Do not generate linker entry in compilation database if the `--no-linker-entry`
       option is present. Default: disabled.
   * - `--parse-build-log <file>`
     - Specify the file path of the build log.
   * - `--verbose`, `-v`
     - Enable verbose output from `intercept-build`. A second, third, and fourth
       flag increases verbosity.
   * - `--work-directory <path>`
     - Specify the working directory of the command that generates the build log
       specified by option `-parse-build-log`. Default: the directory of build log
       file specified by option `-parse-build-log`.

.. _end-intercept-build-block:

.. _opt-codepin-report-block:

New codepin-report.py tool help description
-----------------------

.. code-block:: bash
   :linenos:

   $ dpct  --codepin-report -h
   usage: codepin-report.py [-h] --instrumented-cuda-log <file path> --instrumented-sycl-log <file path> [--floating-point-comparison-epsilon <file path>]


CodePin report functionality of the compatibility tool.

Options:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
   * - `-h, --help`
     - Show this help message and exit.
   * - `--instrumented-cuda-log <file path>`
     - Specify the execution log file generated by the instrumented CUDA code.
   * - `--instrumented-sycl-log <file path>`
     - Specify the execution log file generated by the instrumented SYCL code.
   * - `--floating-point-comparison-epsilon <file path>`
     - Specify the relative and absolute tolerance epsilon JSON file for floating
       point data comparison. The JSON file contains the key-value pairs, where the
       key is a specific float type, and the value is the corresponding epsilon. For
       example:
       {
       "rel_tol": 1e-3,               # relative tolerance for all float types, it is a ratio value in the range [0 , 1].

       "bf16_abs_tol": 7.81e-3,       # absolute tolerance for bfloat16 type.

       "fp16_abs_tol": 9.77e-4,       # absolute tolerance for float16 type.

       "float_abs_tol": 1.19e-7,      # absolute tolerance for float type.

       "double_abs_tol": 2.22e-16,    # absolute tolerance for double type.
       }
       When both rel_tol (relative tolerance) and abs_tol (absolute tolerance) are 
       provided, both tolerances are taken into account.
       The tolerance values are passed to the Python math.isclose() function.
       If rel_tol is 0, then abs_tol is used as the tolerance. Conversely, if abs_tol
       is 0, then rel_tol is used. If both tolerances are 0, the floating point data
       must be exactly the same when compared.

.. _end-codepin-report-block:

