.. _DPCT1011:

DPCT1011
========

Message
-------

.. _msg-1011-start:

The tool detected overloaded operators for built-in vector types, which may
conflict with the SYCL 2020 standard operators (see 4.14.2.1 Vec interface).
The tool inserted a namespace to avoid the conflict. Use SYCL 2020 standard
operators instead.

.. _msg-1011-end:

Detailed Help
-------------

You may have overloaded operators for vector types such as ``double2``. This
resulted in a conflict because overloaded operators with the same signature are
also defined in the SYCL\* standard. |tool_name| adds the namespace
for overloaded operators to differentiate them from the ones defined in SYCL.
You may need to rewrite the code.

Suggestions to Fix
------------------

You may need to rewrite this code.

For example, this original CUDA\* code:

.. code-block:: cpp
   :linenos:

   __host__ __device__ double2 &operator+=(double2 &a, const double2 &b) {
     a.x += b.x;
     a.y += b.y;
     return a;
   }
   
   void foo(double2 &a, double2 &b) {
     a += b;
   }

results in the following migrated SYCL code:

.. code-block:: cpp
   :linenos:

   /*
   DPCT1011:0: The tool detected overloaded operators for built-in vector types,
   which may conflict with the SYCL 2020 standard operators (see 4.14.2.1 Vec
   interface). The tool inserted a namespace to avoid the conflict. Use SYCL 2020
   standard operators instead.
   */
   namespace dpct_operator_overloading {
   
   sycl::double2 &operator+=(sycl::double2 &a, const sycl::double2 &b) {
     a.x() += b.x();
     a.y() += b.y();
     return a;
   }
   } // namespace dpct_operator_overloading
   
   void foo(sycl::double2 &a, sycl::double2 &b) {
     dpct_operator_overloading::operator+=(a, b);
   }

which is rewritten to:

.. code-block:: cpp
   :linenos:

   void foo(sycl::double2 &a, sycl::double2 &b) {
     // In this case, the user-defined overloading of `+=` has been supported by sycl::double2, so we can use the operator `+=` directly.  
     a += b;
   }

