.. _DPCT1099:

DPCT1099
========

Message
-------

.. _msg-1099-start:

Verify if the default value of the direction and placement used in the function
*<function name>* aligns with the related ``compute`` function call.


.. _msg-1099-end:

Detailed Help
-------------

By default, the parameter ``direction_and_placement`` is not passed for
``dpct::fft::fft_engine::create()``, ``dpct::fft::fft_engine::commit()``, or
``dpct::fft::fft_engine::estimate_size()``. In this case, a forward direction
(if the current FFT is complex-to-complex) and out-of-place (false) are used as
the default values in this API. The configuration of the direction and placement
is reset when executing ``dpct::fft::fft_engine::compute()`` according to the
argument passed with the ``compute()`` API. There might be performance issues
caused by the reconfiguration.

To avoid the potential performance issues, specify the parameter
``direction_and_placement`` explicitly when calling
``dpct::fft::fft_engine::create()`` or ``dpct::fft::fft_engine::commit()``, then
the direction and placement information passed by the ``compute()`` API is
ignored and no reconfiguration happens.


Suggestions to Fix
------------------

If you received a warning for ``dpct::fft::fft_engine::create()`` or
``dpct::fft::fft_engine::commit()``:

* If you are using an internal workspace and do not care about performance, you
  can ignore this warning.
* If you do care about performance, or if you are using an external workspace, specify the
  ``direction_and_placement`` parameter correctly.

If you received this warning for ``dpct::fft::fft_engine::estimate_size()``, you
need to specify the ``direction_and_placement`` parameter correctly.

For example, this original CUDA\* code:

.. code-block:: cpp
   :linenos:

   void foo(cufftHandle plan, float2 *idata, float2 *odata) {
     size_t worksize;
     cufftMakePlan1d(plan, 7, CUFFT_C2C, 2, &worksize);
     cufftExecC2C(plan, idata, odata, CUFFT_INVERSE);
   }

results in the following migrated SYCL code:

.. code-block:: cpp
   :linenos:

   void foo(dpct::fft::fft_engine_ptr plan, sycl::float2 *idata,
            sycl::float2 *odata) {
     size_t worksize;
     /*
     DPCT1100:0: Currently the DFT external workspace feature in the Intel(R)
     oneAPI Math Kernel Library (oneMKL) is only supported on GPU devices. Use the
     internal workspace if your code should run on non-GPU devices.
     */
     /*
     DPCT1099:1: Verify if the default value of the direction and placement used in
     the function "commit" aligns with the related "compute" function call.
     */
     plan->commit(&dpct::get_in_order_queue(), 7,
                  dpct::fft::fft_type::complex_float_to_complex_float, 2,
                  &worksize);
     plan->compute<sycl::float2, sycl::float2>(idata, odata,
                                               dpct::fft::fft_direction::backward);
   }

which is rewritten to:

.. code-block:: cpp
   :linenos:

   void foo(dpct::fft::fft_engine_ptr plan, sycl::float2 *idata,
            sycl::float2 *odata) {
     // idata and odata are different memory
     size_t worksize;
     plan->commit(
         &dpct::get_in_order_queue(), 7,
         dpct::fft::fft_type::complex_float_to_complex_float, 2, &worksize,
         std::make_pair(
             dpct::fft::fft_direction::backward /*In the next compute() function,
                the direction is backward. So no need to change here.*/
             ,
             false /*is_inplace. In the next compute() function, idata and
                      odata are different memory, so set false here*/
             ));
     plan->compute<sycl::float2, sycl::float2>(idata, odata,
                                               dpct::fft::fft_direction::backward);
   }
